Dependency policies (#1622)
hexpm/hexpm: lib/hexpm_web/templates/docs/dependency_policies.html.md

## Dependency policies and cooldowns

Two related features help organizations and projects defend against supply-chain attacks by gating which package versions Hex considers during dependency resolution. **Cooldown** is purely temporal — a minimum age a release must have before it becomes eligible. **Policies** are signed, org-published rules that can additionally block releases based on security advisories or retirement reasons.

The two features compose. A project can use either on its own, or both at once.

### Dependency cooldown

> The `cooldown` setting tells Hex to ignore releases that haven't been visible long enough for the community to flag them as malicious or broken. Newly-published versions only become eligible for resolution once they reach the configured minimum age.

Reviewer: Can we soften this a bit?

```suggestion
The `cooldown` setting tells Hex to ignore releases until they have been available for a configured amount of time. This creates a review window in which suspicious or broken releases may be reported before they are selected by dependency resolution.
```

Public policies are free on hex.pm and may be referenced by any project. Private policies require a paid organization and are only visible to organization members.

#### What a policy can declare

Each policy contains:

  * **Visibility** — `public` (any project can opt in) or `private` (organization members only).
  * **Advisory rule** — block releases with a security advisory at or above a chosen severity (`low`, `medium`, `high`, `critical`).
  * **Retirement rule** — block releases retired for any of the selected reasons (`security`, `invalid`, `deprecated`, `renamed`, `other`).
  * **Cooldown** — a minimum release age contributed by the policy itself.

#### Creating a policy

Org admins create and edit policies under the `Policies` tab in the [organization dashboard](/dashboard). Every change is recorded in the org's audit log and re-uploaded as a signed payload that travels with every developer who opts in.

#### Opting in

> A project opts in via one of three sources. All three compose via AND — no source can subtract policies contributed by another.

Reviewer: Do we have to explain this better? Something like

For example, if local config blocks releases younger than 7 days and an organization policy blocks high-severity advisories, a release must satisfy both conditions to be eligible.

In `mix.exs`:

```elixir
# lib/<app>/mix.exs
defp project() do
  [
    app: :my_app,
    version: "0.1.0",
    hex: [

>       policy: [repo: "myorg", name: "strict-prod"]

Reviewer: Would this make more sense since we say that there can be multiple?

```suggestion
      policies: [[repo: "myorg", name: "strict-prod"]]
```

    ]
  ]
end
```

Via environment variable (comma-separated for multiple policies):

```nohighlight
$ HEX_POLICY=myorg/strict-prod mix deps.get
```

Via `mix hex.config`:

```nohighlight

> $ mix hex.config policy myorg/strict-prod

Reviewer: Same as above?

```suggestion
$ mix hex.config policies myorg/strict-prod,myorg/some-other
```

Possibly even `mix hex.config policy add` / `mix hex.config policy remove`

```

#### Inspecting the active set

The `mix hex.policy` task summarizes the policies currently in effect:

```nohighlight
$ mix hex.policy
$ mix hex.policy show
$ mix hex.policy why PACKAGE
```

`show` (the default) prints the per-policy state — visibility, source, cooldown, advisory rule, retirement rule — and the effective cooldown across all policies plus local config. `why PACKAGE` walks every version of the named package in the registry and prints which versions are blocked, by which policy, and for what reason.

#### Caching and fail-open

> Each policy is cached on disk independently. On fetch failure — network blip, registry outage, signature mismatch — Hex falls back to the last-known-good cached payload and prints a stale warning. A per-policy maximum staleness of 30 days hard-fails resolution for that policy, capping how long a network adversary could suppress a refresh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Caching and refresh failures

Each policy is cached on disk independently. If a policy cannot be refreshed because of a network error or registry outage, Hex falls back to the last-known-good cached payload and prints a stale warning. If a refreshed policy fails signature verification, Hex ignores that payload and continues using the last-known-good version. If the cached policy is older than 30 days, dependency resolution fails instead of continuing with stale policy data.
```

### How cooldown and policies interact

> A project that uses both features gets the intersection. Policies that declare their own cooldown participate in the effective cooldown via strictest-wins — local config can only make it stricter, never weaker. Setting `HEX_COOLDOWN=0` only disables the local contribution and cannot override a cooldown imposed by an active policy.

Reviewer: Add at end:

```md
### Limitations

Cooldowns and policies reduce exposure to newly-published malicious, broken, vulnerable, or retired releases during resolution. They are not a substitute for reviewing dependency changes, keeping lockfiles updated, or auditing packages already in use.
```
